do you think inflation is bad now well
what if I told you that it was about to
get a lot worse in today's video I'm
going to explain why even if all the
supply chain issues and everything else
we've been hearing about over the past
couple years go away those are gone
throw them out the window there is still
a major risk of encountering much more
inflation I'm going to explain why if
you look at what's happened over the
last little while we have seen that the
government in the US they've been able
to issue as much debt as they want
simply because there's always a buyer
people are always willing to buy up US
debt because hey we know that they have
good standing and they'll be able to pay
you back and so investors different
countries even domestically are willing
to put their money in knowing they'll
get it back and an interesting
you know perhaps right now especially a
nice rate of return on top of that but
what if there was too much debt what
would happen then I'm going to explain
that today and unfold the possibility of
the United States being unable to
fulfill its promises you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
here we have it Wall Street braces for
roughly $1.5 trillion in further
borrowing needs by the treasury and so
for those who don't know I'll just
explain this really quickly the
government wants to spend money if you
have let's just say a trillion two
trillion four trillion whatever it's
going to be in an infrastructure
spending plan or some other plan and you
want to do that well how does that work
well you have to have the government
basically issuing bonds they take their
debt they package it up and then they
sell it off to an investor and that
investor could be you know you it could
be your pension fund it could be an
investor outside the country it could be
a foreign government could be anybody
and right now the way it works you've
got these auctions that take place and
they have a certain set of bonds that
they're going to issue out and they say
okay here's you know a billion dollars
who's going to take okay I'll you know
you'll take you'll take okay great and
so what happens during the periods of
time is that usually however much they
issue people will buy it all up and the
rate at which they are giving that out
that's like let's say fair price okay
however if you start to want to give
more well then you have to increase your
rate so if you're given let's say 5% on
that Bond well you know we're issuing a
lot here um and of course investors have
different options they don't have to go
to just the United States well what what
do they do they go from 5% and maybe
they say okay well 5.2 okay 5.5 and so
that's a problem and the reason why is
because you've got to be able to pay
that back eventually right you're
holding it for a period of time but
eventually you got to pay out on that
and so it's difficult longterm you got
long-term borrowing costs but what
happens in the example of too much out
there and suddenly there's not enough
buyers
this is a big concern let's get into it
so here we have it it's going to explain
a few things I just want to touch on
them but I think you get the point of
what I'm getting
at they're talking about you know how
much will be coming out there is it 800
One Bank says it's going to be maybe 800
billion the other bank says no it's
going to be 1.5 trillion I don't know
but there's going to be a lot and we
know that the government wants to spend
a lot of money now remember we're
technically based on their measurements
we're not in a crisis we're not in a
recession we're not seeing that globally
right but what happens during the next
Crisis well they have to do something
they got to spend a lot of money right
so we're not we haven't even entered
that period yet keep that in mind
treasuries heavy borrowing is one of the
most important factors behind the recent
steep runup in long-term yields which
ended the New York session at their
highest levels since 2007 last week so
you gotta just understand that what
we're saying here is the 10year the
30-year bonds like long-term debt that
just keeps going higher and higher and
higher and that's good if you're buying
that and you're getting that rate of
return important right you could see
they each jumped by a full percentage
point or more as Traders fret over the
onslaught of a supply of treasuries the
US us government's fiscal trajectory and
the risks of holding long dated
government Deb to maturity we do expect
the treasury to be responsive oh yeah
I'm sure they're going to respond all
right and then you'll see given the
backdrop the treasury current auction
schedule is insufficient to meet its
prospective financing needs the funding
Gap remains large in the coming years
even after last quarter's
increases so what there saying is they
have to spend more money they are going
to spend more money and the government
needs to basically have more of that
debt packaged up so what does that mean
well we got to have more investors
buying it up are there going to be
enough investors of course you can
increase that interest rate higher and
higher and higher and and get that but
are you going to be able to pay that
back you see that's the tossup for an
investor
oh they're going to offer me 20% but in
30 years is the government really going
to be able to pay me back look at what
happened with for instance
Argentina and even you know Austria they
do these like 100e bonds what happened
to the value of them from 100 down to 30
okay there's no value in these things
long term they don't want that as time
goes on you just lose value lose value
so the investor can say you know what uh
I'm going to sell that off but what are
they doing they're getting 33 cents on
the dollar that's a big problem and so
this is the issue who then would buy it
all if you don't have enough investors
to come in and buy that or you know at
at that certain level of rate of return
who then would be the lender of Last
Resort well this is directly from the
federal reserve's website one reason
that Congress created the Federal
Reserve of course was to act as the
lender of Last Resort there we go right
from their website and this the speech
from their website also the lender of
Last Resort function in the United
States it is no question there's no
doubt about that that they are the
lender of Last Resort the US Central
bank's response to the debt limit
related Market stress were laid out in
an August 2011 conference call held by
the fomc to discuss what it seemed to be
imminent trouble this was a big thing
back in 2011 okay but this is the point
two of the key ideas developed then the
use of repurchase and reverse repurchase
agreements to ensure liquidity for the
most important financial markets and are
there now permanent fed programs
integral to how it manages interest
rates on a basis the Federal Reserve
they're doing these reverse repos right
now at the tune of about a trillion
dollar a day and what does that mean
it's it's nonsense of money basically
trading hands between them and the
commercial Banks providing liquidity
it's like grease on the wheels along the
way these Banks able to profit a little
little tiny bit every single time they
do that and they facilitate that
transaction so they're doing this right
now the Federal Reserve is going to
there's going to be way too much of that
um you know that debt those debt
packages those little presents with a
little pretty bow on top and that is
going to need to be bought by the
Federal
Reserve when that happens that means QT
quantitative tightening stops it's done
and we have QE but they may not
necessarily call it QE they might not
say oh it's a program they they say
we're just going to do this thing over
here we're going to call it a technical
change and they're going to be buying
that up and of course the value of your
currency will suffer as a result there
are probably others talking about this
this out there at this level though we
need to understand it I know it's a
little complicated try to make as easy
as possible as easy as I possibly can
but you got to know this this is not
like you know you're going to get this
on your you know typical tabloid
newspapers and all that stuff that's not
what this is this is the deeper levels
of what's happening the risk of your
currency and understand that basically
all governments are in the exact same
situation as this to turn it around
would require a reduction in spending by
the governments and I don't think that's
happening I really don't in fact I think
they're all going to go pedal to the
metal and so the central banks are going
to have to come in in and devour it all
up and then they'll spend more and then
they'll devour more and then they'll
spend more and devour more and the
balance sheets of these institutions
will continue to grow continue to
devalue your currency and unfortunately
at the end of the day there'll be a ever
growing divide in between the rich and
the poor so you got to understand it
doesn't matter who you vote in doesn't
matter anything because this is going on
right now right before our very eyes I
hope you appreciate this information if
you did of course hit that thumbs up if
you want to get the depths of this kind
of thing I'm I only really have the time
to do so on the Friday sessions the live
sessions closed private group that we
have if you're interested in that link
in the description that's where I can
spend like literally a half an hour hour
just breaking this down and making sure
everybody in the small group is on the
same page all right I know my Friday
group appreciates that even though uh um
you know it's it is really convoluted
it's complex but it it's so important we
all understand that that's that's the
real deal okay comment of the day here
we go
Mary our bank already limits the amount
that we can withdraw in cash and
requires a waiting period to get
anything over the limit add to that the
virtual prohibition of cash payments for
larger purchases over
$110,000 and you see what's coming
absolutely this is why we need to be in
control of our finances I hope that
everybody realizes they see the writing
on the wall and what's happening here
this is worrisome but you've got to take
control as best you can I hope you
appreciate this I'll see you tomorrow
take care